We'll come back in in the previous lesson we build out an application.
And we had to do some bug fixing.
So in this lesson are going to show you throw try to catch.
And this is going to give you the ability to do some additional bug fixing with your applications.
So first of all let's open up our editor and we're going to create
a default function where we're going to have an error.
So we'll have function and test me.
So basically this is our test function.
And within this function we're going to try to reuse the statement try and what we're going to try to
do within here is we're going to try to put something into the console.
So let's spell console wrong.
It's a console and we're going to say hello.
So we try to do this.
And next what I want to do is I want to grab that error message using catch.
So we're going to grab that error within catch and we're going to output that error into message up
here so let's do document get element by Id grab a message that's going to put that error into our inner
HMO so that we can see it.
So let's put error into here.
So this one error message.
And also I want to put that air in its entirety within the con..
So let's try this out and launch it.
So now let's fire off.
Test me so see what happens.
So we see that what actually gets returned that this updated so con coal is not defined.
So that's our air reference here.
And we saw that we've got this reference air.
Test me.
So it gives us more information to actually what happened.
And I know you can see a lot of this within the console as well but sometimes you don't want your script
to stop executing.
And by doing it try that gives you the ability to try to execute some functions.
And if it doesn't turn out the rest of your script continues can continue to execute.
So it doesn't produce that javascript error that's going to actually stop the code from executing.
And if we output the same thing as directory's so console directory we see we've got this reference
error.
So that's what we're picking up and catch we can use catch and catch is a statement and allows us to
catch the error that's being thrown and basically handle the error.
So we've got.
Message.
Clean coal is not defined.
So that's what we're outputting over here.
And then we've got some more information reference occurred.
Coal is not defined.
And we've got some more details here and that's what basically was being output within that console.
And what throw does is it actually allows us to set a custom error.
So let's set up a variable.
And I'm going to give this variable a number of 500 and instead of trying to output control we're just
going to do control x.
So no that's not going to work.
And we're also going to do some tests here as well.
So we're going to check to see if the value of x is greater than 100 then we're going to output through
role.
And we're going to create our brand new air that yes it's greater than 100 and we're going to do another
condition.
So this is where we can use our conditions at this time if X is less than 100 than we're going to do.
Oh no it's less than 100.
So let's try this out now so let's open up refreshed in the console.
Let's do.
Test me test me function and we see that we're able to define our own error messages here.
So we see that instead of being returned back that default message we can actually see some information.
And this is also really useful when we're debugging because this gives us ability to customize our errors.
And especially for looking out for a particular variable.
If one of our variables is not working properly we can try and we can then do a check to see what that
value is and output a customized message within the console.
So really helpful when it comes to debugging.
So next time you're debugging your applications try to use the try catch in order to determine the error
and then you can customize those error messages using throw.